# Sparkify Project - Data Modeling with Postgres
***
### Enviroment
Python 3.6 or above

PostgresSQL 9.5 or above

psycopg2 - PostgreSQL database adapter for Python

## Overview
Sparkify is a music streaming app made by a startup, the analytics team is interested in knowing what songs users are listening to, data is stored in JSON files and that's where i come in.

## Files
We have two data sets (song, log) stored inside data folder, first one contains songs data and the second contains users data. The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song.The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate activity logs from a music streaming app based on specified configurations.

## Repository Files
In addition to the data files, the project workspace includes six files:

1. *test.ipynb* displays the first few rows of each table so we can check the database.
2. *create_tables.py* drops and creates  tables. Run this file to reset tables before each time running ETL scripts.
3. *etl.ipynb* reads and processes a single file from song_data and log_data and loads the data into tables. This notebook contains detailed instructions on the ETL process for each of the tables.
4. *etl.py* reads and processes files from song_data and log_data and loads them into tables.
5. *sql_queries.py* contains all sql queries, and is imported into the last three files above.
6. *README.md* provides discussion on the project.

## How to run scripts?
1. Open a terminal
2. Type python (name of the script)
3. Hit Enter


## Acknowledgments

This README includes parts of the official project instructions provided to the students of the [Data Engineer Nanodegree Program at Udacity](https://www.udacity.com/course/data-engineer-nanodegree--nd027).

Part of the contents and structure of this README was inspired by [CarlosUziel](https://github.com/CarlosUziel/sparkify_postgresq).